README.md, before:

# ESP32 CO2 Monitor

A Rust-based air quality monitoring system using ESP32 microcontroller, SCD41 CO2 sensor, and SSD1306 OLED display.

## Features

- Measures CO2, temperature, and humidity using Sensirion SCD41 sensor
- Displays readings on a SSD1306 OLED display
- Broadcasts readings over BLE (GATT server)
- Written in Rust using esp-idf framework
- Periodic measurements with configurable interval
- Error handling and display

## Hardware Requirements

- ESP32 development board
- Sensirion SCD41 CO2 sensor
- SSD1306 OLED display (128x64)
- I2C connections:
  - SDA: GPIO8
  - SCL: GPIO9

## Building and Flashing

1. Install Rust and ESP-IDF toolchain
2. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/arietis/esp32-co2-monitor.git
   cd esp32-co2-monitor
   ```
3. Build the project:
   ```bash
   cargo build
   ```
4. Flash to ESP32:
   ```bash
   cargo run
   ```

## Configuration

The default measurement interval is 5 seconds. You can modify this in `src/main.rs`:

```rust
const MEASUREMENT_INTERVAL_MS: u32 = 5000;
```

## BLE

The firmware exposes sensor readings over BLE using a custom GATT service:

- Device name: `ESP32-CO2`
- Service UUID: `c892f08b-0502-49a6-8c52-b959aa997e54`
- Characteristics:
  - CO2: `00002b8c-0000-1000-8000-00805f9b34fb`
  - Temperature: `00002a6e-0000-1000-8000-00805f9b34fb`
  - Humidity: `00002a6f-0000-1000-8000-00805f9b34fb`

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

Commit message:

fix(i2c): update I2C pins to GPIO4/5
Changes the I2C pins from GPIO8/9 to GPIO4/5. This avoids a potential
conflict with the onboard NeoPixel LED, which is often connected to GPIO8
on ESP32-C3 dev kits.

The previous SDA pin (GPIO8) is now explicitly set low on startup to
ensure the LED is off. The README has been updated to reflect the new
pinout.

README.md, after:

# ESP32-C3 CO2 Monitor

A Rust-based air quality monitoring system using ESP32-C3 microcontroller, SCD41 CO2 sensor, and SSD1306 OLED display.

## Features

- Measures CO2, temperature, and humidity using Sensirion SCD41 sensor
- Displays readings on a SSD1306 OLED display
- Broadcasts readings over BLE (GATT server)
- Written in Rust using esp-idf framework
- Periodic measurements with configurable interval
- Error handling and display
- Automatic disabling of the onboard LED (GPIO 8) to prevent interference

## Hardware Requirements

- ESP32-C3 development board (e.g., ESP32-C3 DevKitM-1)
- Sensirion SCD41 CO2 sensor
- SSD1306 OLED display (128x64)
- I2C connections:
  - SDA: GPIO4
  - SCL: GPIO5

## Building and Flashing

1. Install Rust and ESP-IDF toolchain
2. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/arietis/esp32-co2-monitor.git
   cd esp32-co2-monitor
   ```
3. Build the project:
   ```bash
   cargo build
   ```
4. Flash to ESP32:
   ```bash
   cargo run
   ```

## Configuration

The default measurement interval is 5 seconds. You can modify this in `src/main.rs`:

```rust
const MEASUREMENT_INTERVAL_MS: u32 = 5000;
```

## BLE

The firmware exposes sensor readings over BLE using a custom GATT service:

- Device name: `ESP32-CO2`
- Service UUID: `c892f08b-0502-49a6-8c52-b959aa997e54`
- Characteristics:
  - CO2: `00002b8c-0000-1000-8000-00805f9b34fb`
  - Temperature: `00002a6e-0000-1000-8000-00805f9b34fb`
  - Humidity: `00002a6f-0000-1000-8000-00805f9b34fb`

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.
